forensics/makulatoren/index.md, before:

+++
title = 'Makulatoren'
categories = ['forensics']
date = 2025-12-05T10:00:57+01:00
scrollToTop = true
+++

## Challenge Name:

Makulatoren

## Category:

Forensics

## Challenge Description:

Nistrid havde gemt et billede af sin Pokémonsamling og holdt det kært. En aften havde Nissen, ja ham drillenissen I alle kender, stjålet billedet og kommet det i julemakulatoren.

Stakkels Nistrid, der nu prøver at samle resterne, men det er ikke nemt uden hjælp.

## Approach

### Initial metadata analysis aka. finding the beginning and the end
- Overview: We received 21 shredded JPEG fragments. The goal was to rebuild the image and extract the flag.

JPEG files have specific "Magic Bytes" that mark their beginning and end.
- Step 1 — Identify Start of and end of image (SOI/EOI): JPEGs start with `FF D8` (SOI) and end with `FF D9` (EOI). Using this on each fragment
```bash
xxd -l 2 -p {IMAGE}
```
Where [xxd](https://linux.die.net/man/1/xxd) creates a hex dump, `-l 2` stops processing after reading 2 octets and -p outputs in "plain" hexdump style (no line numbers of ASCII)

The output
```bash
 --- HEADERS ---
File 1: 430b
File 2: 8171
File 3: 6c69
File 4: 29e4
File 5: 8ca8
File 6: 3c98
File 7: 2be0
File 8: 0206
File 9: b568
File 10: 0a7b
File 11: 6574
File 12: c876
File 13: 3e95
File 14: 1a87
File 15: 1685
File 16: 0382
File 17: 0335
File 18: 7c2c
File 19: ffd8
File 20: 63a7
File 21: 38ad
 --- FOOTERS ---
File 1: 13b4
File 2: 7fc5
File 3: 706d
File 4: 0923
File 5: e2ee
File 6: b270
File 7: ba7b
File 8: 7a80
File 9: 8ca2
File 10: 05f5
File 11: ea7d
File 12: a672
File 13: 2324
File 14: 73ee
File 15: ffd9
File 16: 9270
File 17: aa6e
File 18: 07a7
File 19: 6270
File 20: b5a0
File 21: 09f0
```

We find
  - File `19`: `ffd8` → Start of Image (SOI)
  - File `15`: `ffd9` → End of Image (EOI)
  - So we know that the sequence should be: `19 → ... → 15`
  - Now we need to find what comes after File 19. 
  - Since the image was shredded (split), the bytes at the end of File 19 flow directly into the start of the next file. 
  - File 19 likely contains the image header (metadata). 
  - We'll inspect it to see if it cuts off in the middle of a known text string or structure. This is
  often the easiest way to find the next piece manually.

### String analysis to fill out the entire sequence

- Step 2 — Establish continuity: Match cut strings across fragment boundaries to find neighbors.
  - `19` ends with `bp`; `3` starts with `list` → `bplist` (Apple Property List)
  - `3` ends with `xmpm`; `11` starts with `eta>` → `xmpmeta>` (XMP Metadata)
  - So we can now assume the following sequence: `19 → 3 → 11 → ... → 15`


### Trial & Error... lots of errors
  - From here on it was A LOT of trial and error with the sequence, throughout which we also got some "Du er tæt på flaget" = "You are close to the flag"...
  - I finally got the flag with the following sequence
  - Final sequence: `19 → 3 → 11 → 21 → 13 → 4 → 14 → 17 → 15` ![solution](images/solution.jpg)
  - The python script for assembling the picture can be found [here](scripts/solve_makulatoren.py)
  - I tried embedding OCR scanning (to programmatically track progress), but ultimately found it much faster and more reliable to simply look at the images as they were assembled!

## Flag

```text
NC3{Pokemonkort_i_2025_er_nostalgisk}
```

## Reflections and Learnings
-
- JPEG forensics: SOI/EOI identification quickly anchors start/end fragments.
- Continuity cues: Split strings (e.g., `bplist`, `xmpmeta>`) are reliable neighbor indicators.
- OCR iteration: Enhance images (invert/contrast) and iterate until coherent phrases emerge.
- Hints matter: Use contextual clues to prioritize promising sequences.

Commit message:

Update reflections on OCR reliability
Revised the reflections section to note that OCR iteration can be seriously unreliable compared to human vision, and removed redundant points about hints and image enhancement.

forensics/makulatoren/index.md, after:

+++
title = 'Makulatoren'
categories = ['forensics']
date = 2025-12-05T10:00:57+01:00
scrollToTop = true
+++

## Challenge Name:

Makulatoren

## Category:

Forensics

## Challenge Description:

Nistrid havde gemt et billede af sin Pokémonsamling og holdt det kært. En aften havde Nissen, ja ham drillenissen I alle kender, stjålet billedet og kommet det i julemakulatoren.

Stakkels Nistrid, der nu prøver at samle resterne, men det er ikke nemt uden hjælp.

## Approach

### Initial metadata analysis aka. finding the beginning and the end
- Overview: We received 21 shredded JPEG fragments. The goal was to rebuild the image and extract the flag.

JPEG files have specific "Magic Bytes" that mark their beginning and end.
- Step 1 — Identify Start of and end of image (SOI/EOI): JPEGs start with `FF D8` (SOI) and end with `FF D9` (EOI). Using this on each fragment
```bash
xxd -l 2 -p {IMAGE}
```
Where [xxd](https://linux.die.net/man/1/xxd) creates a hex dump, `-l 2` stops processing after reading 2 octets and -p outputs in "plain" hexdump style (no line numbers of ASCII)

The output
```bash
 --- HEADERS ---
File 1: 430b
File 2: 8171
File 3: 6c69
File 4: 29e4
File 5: 8ca8
File 6: 3c98
File 7: 2be0
File 8: 0206
File 9: b568
File 10: 0a7b
File 11: 6574
File 12: c876
File 13: 3e95
File 14: 1a87
File 15: 1685
File 16: 0382
File 17: 0335
File 18: 7c2c
File 19: ffd8
File 20: 63a7
File 21: 38ad
 --- FOOTERS ---
File 1: 13b4
File 2: 7fc5
File 3: 706d
File 4: 0923
File 5: e2ee
File 6: b270
File 7: ba7b
File 8: 7a80
File 9: 8ca2
File 10: 05f5
File 11: ea7d
File 12: a672
File 13: 2324
File 14: 73ee
File 15: ffd9
File 16: 9270
File 17: aa6e
File 18: 07a7
File 19: 6270
File 20: b5a0
File 21: 09f0
```

We find
  - File `19`: `ffd8` → Start of Image (SOI)
  - File `15`: `ffd9` → End of Image (EOI)
  - So we know that the sequence should be: `19 → ... → 15`
  - Now we need to find what comes after File 19. 
  - Since the image was shredded (split), the bytes at the end of File 19 flow directly into the start of the next file. 
  - File 19 likely contains the image header (metadata). 
  - We'll inspect it to see if it cuts off in the middle of a known text string or structure. This is
  often the easiest way to find the next piece manually.

### String analysis to fill out the entire sequence

- Step 2 — Establish continuity: Match cut strings across fragment boundaries to find neighbors.
  - `19` ends with `bp`; `3` starts with `list` → `bplist` (Apple Property List)
  - `3` ends with `xmpm`; `11` starts with `eta>` → `xmpmeta>` (XMP Metadata)
  - So we can now assume the following sequence: `19 → 3 → 11 → ... → 15`


### Trial & Error... lots of errors
  - From here on it was A LOT of trial and error with the sequence, throughout which we also got some "Du er tæt på flaget" = "You are close to the flag"...
  - I finally got the flag with the following sequence
  - Final sequence: `19 → 3 → 11 → 21 → 13 → 4 → 14 → 17 → 15` ![solution](images/solution.jpg)
  - The python script for assembling the picture can be found [here](scripts/solve_makulatoren.py)
  - I tried embedding OCR scanning (to programmatically track progress), but ultimately found it much faster and more reliable to simply look at the images as they were assembled!

## Flag

```text
NC3{Pokemonkort_i_2025_er_nostalgisk}
```

## Reflections and Learnings
- JPEG forensics: SOI/EOI identification quickly anchors start/end fragments.
- Continuity cues: Split strings (e.g., `bplist`, `xmpmeta>`) are reliable neighbor indicators.
- OCR iteration: Can be seriously unreliable... The human vision is just stronger!
